The thing that I love about this show is
like it's not a soap opera. It's just
there's a lot of soap and no opera.
[laughter]
>> I'm Wesley Morris and this is Cannonball
today.
>> Dr. Doctor,
[music]
>> heal me, Dr. Robbie.
Despite everything going on in the world
at this moment, every Thursday for the
past few weeks, I have been in what
passes for a good mood because we got a
new season of The Pit.
And there is a particular kind of
satisfaction that's hard to describe
watching this thing. It involves this
strange feeling of and it's not quite
nostalgia, but like I'm convinced that
like lurking right beneath the surface
of this show is er and if I could just
peel back the top rightmost edge [music]
of the screen, just go like like
wallpaper, I'll find all those old NBC
characters right underneath. And yet,
we're not just going back to [music] ER.
The Pit is making an ancient, comforting
TV genre feel contemporary and vital.
>> 150,000 people die every day in the
world.
>> Today, you got one of them, and we're
going to get more of before the shift is
over.
>> And on those old shows, most patients
went home by the end of an episode. On
this show, the cases never quite close.
here a single day lasts for like 15
episodes which feels much more true and
so I asked my editor and my friend Sasha
Weiss to come back and help me think
through what the show's doing with this
first four episodes of its second
season. Why this show is necessary. Also
forgot why it's so good. That's first.
And then we're going to talk to our
colleague at the Times [music] magazine
about becoming obsessed with a
particular work of art. This person has
[music] gone to see the same oddball
Broadway musical not once, not thrice,
[music] but 13 times. And the two of us
want to know, Sasha and I, what the hell
is wrong with her? Actually, [music]
since we've also had this experience
ourselves, what do we do with these
obsessions when something turns us into
cultural stalkers? And then the Grammys
were last weekend. I just I just wanted
to talk about something I loved. Duck,
here comes the cannonball.
Okay,
I have a problem.
I am going through some real pit
withdrawal because
I'm like everybody else. I get an
episode a week and then I start
or you know I'm just I'm feing
>> Well, they're so clever the way they set
up the show.
>> I'm feeding for some more of the pit.
>> And so it begins.
>> It's the old way of television. 21
million people watched every episode of
season 1. Like something like
>> that doesn't happen anymore culturally.
Very very rarely on that streaming.
>> Crazy.
>> So let's just tell people who are living
under a rock what it's about.
>> Well, 20 million people is not still.
It's not everybody.
>> So the pit,
>> hey Dave, what's a good word? We're
[__]
is a medical procedural. Takes place uh
over 15 hours on one shift. The
attending physician in this Pittsburgh
ER is Dr. Robbie Rabinovich, played by
Noah Wy, a kind of like older
instantiation of young, beautiful,
innocent Noah Wy from ER days. People
really responded to the show in its
first season. They watched it
religiously. It spawned huge fandoms and
I think it really really spoke to a deep
need for a kind of like civics lesson.
This show is a moral universe where
these doctors are
>> dealing with all kinds of really deep
problems. I mean, anything that's going
on in our society passes through the
gauntlet of this very busy city
hospital. There are fentinyl overdoses.
There are people without insurance
coverage. There are mass shootings and
and people with mental illness who are
who are sort of not covered by the
system and all of those problems are
coming into this space and having to be
dealt with by serious people who have
serious ways of dealing with them. So, I
don't know. I I I feel like it would be
nice to talk about like this kind of
thickness of representation and
humanity. Um, I mean, how they put it
across and how they're doing it.
>> Um,
>> like for instance, the waiting room and
how it functions.
>> Well, I mean, the waiting room is
>> 52 in the waiting room and it's not even
seven.
>> I don't know. I mean, you watch a lot of
these medical shows and the waiting room
is kind of a it's kind of an
afterthought. And to me, I mean, the the
thing that the way I there's a lot of
different ways to think about the
waiting room, right, on this show.
>> How you guys doing?
>> The waiting room on this show to me is a
little bit like the pool of contestants
on the Prices, right? [laughter]
>> Sasha Weiss, COME ON DOWN. You're the
next contestant on getting this
thirdderee burn taken care of in in in
room 12.
>> Have you been here long?
>> We've been here about 4 hours.
Oh, we were here two nights ago. We
waited 7 hours.
It's
>> all [__] Can't believe somebody
hasn't died out here. You survey this
this waiting room
and you don't know who's going to get
called. Everybody kind of wants to be
seen, but the show is going to just
choose somebody to take into the into
the emergency room from the waiting
room. But also the people in that
emergency room waiting area are like
just it's it's a sea of humanity, right?
Every type of person is in there. Every
race, every ethnicity among the races.
>> Is it always this busy?
>> No, it gets a lot busier.
>> Every ailment, every There's a Somebody
left a baby in the bathroom this season.
Who Who would do such a thing?
>> Is anyone missing a baby? Did anyone
leave their child in the restroom?
>> And yet it's received with the usual
songw.
>> There's a baby. There's a baby.
>> There's a baby in the bathroom.
>> There's actually a moment a waiting room
moment that I find really indicative of
some of the sensitivity and strength of
the show and it's a waiting room moment.
Do you know which moment I'm talking
about? But you know,
>> I mean the only I can't it's hard to
identify one moment, the baby moment,
but like I guess where the show is
slowing down and showing you uh the deaf
woman.
>> Yes. in like episode two, I guess maybe
it is.
>> Let's watch it for a second because I
think it really
>> of season two.
>> It shows something about what the show
is up to.
>> Okay, so we're we're in the waiting
room.
>> There's all these people. There's
fighting. There's clamor
>> and we're watching this woman watch what
is happening in the emergency waiting
room. And she's like, "Well, when am I
going to go?" That's the look on her
face.
>> And suddenly the the sound goes out.
And it's the show switching perspectives
to be entirely inside the point of view
of this of this character
>> and just for a moment, you know, enough
to make you curious,
>> but meaningfully
>> meaningfully. It's it's it's a weirdly
moving moment I found to suddenly be in
her perspective. And I I honestly the
when I watched it, I thought that like
something was malfunctioning in my
>> Yeah.
>> sound. I had that
>> and you know then it shows the way that
the show is just interested in so many
different people and their experiences
>> and I think that's one of the great
things about this show. I've never
watched I've never watched a show where
characters are developed through I mean
like
>> you identified this earlier as the show
operating within like a like an absolute
moral framework right like we are
watching characters who've taken a
hypocratic oath to essentially do right
by their patients
>> whoever it is who comes in and they
never know who it's going to be.
>> Yes. I mean, if anybody needs a low
refresher for the hypoc hypocratic oath,
I'll just read you a little bit of it.
Into whatsoever houses I enter, this is
what the doctors pledge when they when
they become doctors. Into whatsoever
houses I enter, I will enter to help the
sick, and I will abstain from all
intentional wrongdoing and harm,
especially from abusing the bodies of a
man or woman. Bond or free? Bond or
free?
>> I mean, this was written before.
There have always been slaves, people.
bond or free and whatsoever I shall see
or hear in the course of my profession
as well as outside my profession in my
intercourse with men. There's also that
[laughter] if it be
>> getting really moved there. Come on.
>> If it be what should not be published
abroad, I will never divulge holding
such things to be holy secrets.
>> I mean, so we're operating that is an
ethical pledge within the moral
framework of care and and interpersonal
responsibility. And I un this is the
first medical show I have watched and
I've I mean I haven't watched them all
but I would say I'm at like a good 72%.
I've never watched characters get
developed
not so much through
writing about the personal lives of
these people,
>> right?
>> But through
>> because we only get glimpses of those
things around the edges, right?
>> That's not what the the material of the
show is,
>> right? Nope. We don't get to follow
anybody home because again it's 15
episodes, one hour in the shift of a
day. And the way these characters get
developed on the pit is kind of through
the demonstration of of an ethical
practice. Yes.
>> Right. Like how do these people respond
to decisions? How do they make
decisions?
>> Like a beautiful kind of ethical
contraption. Like I love the way you're
describing it. And there's like a great
moment. I don't know why I found it such
a great moment this season, but I did
where Dr. Robbie and a couple of the
other residents are just standing, you
know, right outside the door of the
emergency room greeting a stream of
humanity, you know, a stream of
ambulance.
>> More game show references cuz each
ambulance pulls up and it's let's make a
deal,
>> right? It's a game, but [laughter] it's
a game with the highest moral stakes and
and people who are really devoted to it.
>> And who do we have here?
>> And you know, each ambulance comes and
you you see suddenly you're in the
doctor's perspective, right? like the
door opens and you don't know what's
going to come at you. You don't know how
severe, you don't know how sick they
are, you don't know who they are, where
they're coming from and you have to
assess the situation and make a decision
and it's it's just it's kind of a
brilliant it's a moral funnel and it
funnels you into the system and then you
have to see how all of these different
people handle this.
>> What's plan?
>> Repeat 12 lead checkin admit for new
onset and evaluate for P aortic
dissection. That
>> goes without saying.
>> Sounds good. I'm a minute behind you.
Yeah. I mean, I also love that moment,
too, because every time that door opens,
the doctors are immediately reminded
that this is not just some body. This is
a person with an age, a name, and
circumstances.
>> Yes.
>> 42-year-old male Sam Wallace, blunt head
with a respiration.
>> And they have to take the humanity into
consideration as well as the nature of
injury.
>> Yes. But I don't know, there's just it
really does res the show has the power
unlike all these other shows where like
so many of them are about like
doctors as angels, doctors as broken
people finding redemption through the
medical system, doctors trying to solve
a very thorny medical case, doctors in
love, doctors breaking up. Like this is
the thing that I love about this show is
like it's not a soap opera. It's just
there's a lot of soap and no opera.
[laughter]
>> You know what I mean? Like there's a lot
of soap on this show.
>> I mean the other thing this show is
really interested in apart from
character and and seeing people and
seeing their their complex situations is
seeing bodies and showing bodies.
forceps
>> full suction
>> med suit and down
>> in a way that like actually TV doesn't
and
>> well can't cuz there's just some stuff
you can't show on CBS.
>> I am happy that streaming is one good
thing about streaming it allows for some
some bodily stuff and the bottom
>> Okay, Scatalogica, let's go. Bring
[laughter] it. Well, it's not about
I
like it that a show about doctors shows
doctors having to handle human beings
and the structures and blood and guts of
their body and where we work in in a
medical system. I mean, I've heard this
from patients, right? Like where their
doctors don't touch them. In this show,
there's a lot of touch and also showing
some of the the the the difficulty of of
bodies. Like there's this scene where
this construction worker has fallen and
dislocated his shoulder and his his bone
is sticking out. And they show us how it
works
>> to reinsert. I mean,
>> do you remember that? They're they tie a
bandage or like they've got some gauze
or you know some kind of very tough
tensile material around this guy and
they're just they're trying to pull the
shoulder back into the socket and it
won't go.
>> Okay, on my count one two three.
>> Come on [__]
Humor head is not reducing.
>> Should be done in the O.
>> I am your
>> Okay. In Dr. Robbie's like, "I think you
got to
>> stick four fingers under that humoral
head."
>> Really?
>> Yeah. Get in there really, really deep.
>> He's like, "Yeah, just actually, why
don't you try maybe turning something a
little bit and then we'll see what
happens."
>> One, two, 3.
>> Very cool.
>> And sure enough, like his trick works
and it just goes right back in.
>> And the camera goes in close. Like you
see the
>> You watch the bone go. I mean, it's like
it gets sucked into a black hole or
something.
>> Yeah. You know, but it's like I like
seeing it because I like seeing people
minister to bodies.
>> It's a huge important part of the show.
I think I agree with you.
>> Well, what do you think is important
about it?
>> That all the bodies are the same.
>> Mhm.
>> I know this is really like obvious and
perhaps even like overly sentimental,
but it really is. When you cut somebody
open, it doesn't matter how much money
they have or what they look like.
A dislocated shoulder is a dislocated
shoulder and everybody deserves to have
it relocated. [laughter]
And so there is
>> and we're dealing with humans here,
right?
>> We're dealing with humans and their
peculiar particular way of being and and
being constructed and the people that
are doing that are really interested in
that and it makes us really interested.
can feel the show training me to not
watch it through my fingers cuz I'm
watching increasingly less of it like
this and more of it like
>> okay
>> you're like confront the catastrophe of
being mortal confront the catastrophe of
being vulnerable confront the
catastrophe of being a human being
>> I think it is a real social service in
that it's like psychosocial service in
that sense there are we're only four
episodes in there must be like what 35
more episodes in this
Uh, we will I like
>> There's so many little seeds that have
been planted. What's going to happen
with Dr. McCay's date? What's going to
happen?
>> Oh my god, the sexy soccer player
>> with Louis and the belly. What's going
to happen with that baby? Is Dr. Robbie
going to go on his sbatical?
>> Is he going to Is he going to do it with
Dr. Alashimi? Cuz there is a skeleton in
that man's closet and I feel like season
3 is going it's going to come walking
into the ER.
>> Um, but in the meantime, I think we
should take a break. And when we come
back, uh, I think we're gonna talk to
our colleague about like a truly
nutso thing she did, which is to see
something 13 times in a very small span
of time. We'll be right back.
Okay, we are here with Taffy Broadesses.
And Taffy, you wrote this story
about having this experience going to
see Operation Mince Meat.
>> Many, many, many, many, many times.
>> 13 times.
>> You're short a few.
>> I [laughter]
Well, let's just assume that many
contains at least two or three.
>> Sure.
>> Can you Let's just go back to the first
time you did it.
>> Okay. You didn't, you know, you just
went to see a show.
>> I went to see a show in press previews,
right,
>> with Michael Pollson, our theater
reporter who invites me to stuff and if
the date works out, I say yes because
who would say no
>> to Michael Pollson? I would not
>> I would never say he's best theater date
in town and I go to this show with him
and I am zoned out the way I always am
lately. M
>> I feel like I have been so bored lately.
I feel like even the things that I like
only take up part of my attention that,
you know, I could be watching this and I
could be thinking about that and
everything I watch feels flat. I could
see every move coming.
I'm never surprised anymore.
And into that I was invited to this show
>> and I'm sitting there and I'm watching
it.
[music]
>> And something in me says
>> something is happening on stage and you
should pay attention to it.
>> Ladies and [music] gentlemen, welcome to
MI. I think we should just say for one
sec that Operation Minsme is a is a
musical that's created essentially by by
some friends
from England and the show is essentially
about a plot to trick the Nazis into
going to Sardinia.
>> Right. It's a ruse.
>> Yes.
>> They dress up a the corpse of a homeless
man as a British spy with plans attached
to his wrist. They pretend he was
drowned off the coast of Spain,
>> right?
>> And then there is a an intermission and
Michael Pollson, who who does invite me
a lot,
>> um turns to me with with his with the
dread he has developed of me about to
explain to him why the thing we're
watching is not that good. [laughter]
And and I say, I love it. And the
delight on his face, the shock and the
delight on his face. M
>> the second act is somehow even better
than the first act. And I
>> I don't even want us to take the bus
home like we do. I want to walk
>> because because the world is great and
what a town and can you believe we get
to do this
>> and I I'm Mary Tyler Moore in the middle
of the street and I can't believe what
I've just seen. And I go home and I say
I just saw the best musical and normally
that's where it would end. But what
happened next was that a friend was
coming into town and she said, "What
should I see?" And I said, "You should
see, have you heard of Operation
Mincemee?" She had and she said, "I'll
see that." And I said, "I'll go with
you. Me who never has time. Me who who
is negligent of everything and who I
don't exercise enough and I have three
sisters and two children and a mother
and nobody ever sees me." And you
thought consciously like I want to see
that again and have that experience
again of perfect alignment.
>> Yeah. I want to go in and I want I want
to wa I want to show it to someone.
That's what I wanted. I want to
[clears throat] show it to somebody.
>> But what did you want to show like when
the second time like what did you want
this person that you took to see or to
experience? Did you did you want them to
see you?
>> You're asking questions of the heart.
And the answer is I want you to see this
thing that I find perfect. I want to
show you that I have found something
perfect
>> and beyond that I mean I have editors
who ask me to write paragraphs
explaining it and I could make a list of
the things that I liked and love and the
reason I think it works and those
[clears throat] are matters of my brain.
But this show had me by the soul
>> and I could not remember a time
>> by the first the first experience. But
you didn't know that.
>> I didn't know it yet. I didn't know. I
knew that it was crazy that I was going
to a Broadway show for a second time.
That like I grew up I grew up in
Brooklyn. I you go to Broadway shows on
your birthday.
>> If you're lucky, you [laughter] stand in
the TKTS line and you see what nobody
else wanted to see and and that's your
that's you do it once or twice a year if
you are very very lucky. right
>> here. I was going a second time and then
I cannot tell you. I have a list of
dates. I have ticket receipts and I
still can't even tell you because
telling you is words and this is this is
my soul.
>> Okay.
>> The thing
>> don't worry I am embarrassed. [laughter]
I just want everyone to know
about I don't want to be embarrassed
either.
>> I mean the reason we we brought you here
for a reason, Taffy, right?
>> You inspired us. Or or or maybe more to
the point, you reminded us of a feeling.
Yeah. That is a very specific feeling,
which is the feeling of it's you
described it so beautifully, being
enclosed in a world of art that then
becomes your inner world,
>> right? That you are the thing.
>> You are the thing and the thing is you
>> and it becomes one with your identity
for a time. and trying to understand why
that happens.
>> Why that happens, but also then maybe
stop trying to understand why it happens
and being so grateful that it did
happen.
>> That's really touching, Tassy.
[laughter]
But okay,
I want to come back to this.
>> This is cool, right? To just cry here.
Okay, good. Good. I just wanted to make
sure. [laughter] Thank you. Thank you.
But I also think that like to a person I
think that these kinds of um
obsessions can be both explained and are
also inexplicable. Right. Right. And so,
you know, part of the reason that you're
here today is to like work this out
among the three of us.
>> Turning to the, you know, a little
cultural diagnosing important, but now
we're turning to the therapeutic part of
this conversation. I'm here for it.
>> Where we all learn something about
ourselves, we hope.
>> I mean, look, like everybody's got one
of these
things, right? Where you
have a reaction, you don't really know
why. And if you're the kind of person
who's curious about that, you maybe want
to get to the bottom of it. When I was
14,
13,
I was 14, I went and saw Misery.
James Khan is a famous novelist. He's
written a bunch of very popular books
featuring this one character. Has a car
accident.
Returning from having written the last
novel about this character and he has
killed her off. He gets pulled out of
the snow by a woman who lives in a in a
house nearby. She nurses him back to
health.
>> I'll take good care of you. I'm your
number one fan.
She finds out he's going to kill off her
favorite character and she is like, "I
would rather you didn't do that."
>> You dirty bird. How could you?
She can't be dead. And instead of
letting you go off and write some other
things because you know you want to be
free of this character, I'm gonna
imprison you in my house until you
[snorts] write some more of my favorite
character in a new book. Right.
>> How about that?
>> Right.
>> And until you do that, I'm going to
torture you.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm going to keep you here until I
get my book. How's that sound?
>> Yeah.
>> That's not the movie I watched as a
14-year-old. [laughter]
>> Tell me. [snorts] I watched a movie
about a loving woman who was taking care
of a person with from the goodness of
her heart and every once in a while
would just, you know,
be in a bad mood.
>> How about she chopped off his feet?
>> She doesn't chop his foot off.
>> She just merely breaks the [__] out of
[__] out of his ankle.
>> Shh, darling. Trust me.
>> God's sake.
>> It's for the best.
>> HEY, PLEASE. [screaming]
Almost done.
>> Oh, sorry. I'm so sorry. I Sorry. It's
called
>> Were there two miseries?
>> Uh, no. [laughter]
There's only one misery. There's lots of
miseries, Taffy, but there's only one
Rob Reiner's Misery, starring Kathy
Bates and James Khan.
>> She hobbles him. She puts a plank of
wood between his two ankles and she
takes a sledgehammer and whacks his
foot. And the movie shows you his foot
go from 12:00 to about 4. And yet you
find her loving.
>> Kathy, a big apology.
>> I love I did not know.
>> So I think what we're talking about here
>> Yeah.
>> is the irrational
>> irrational responses to works of art.
>> Can I ask a question?
>> Yes.
>> Did you the first time you saw it
understand that you were having a
different experience than the people
around you?
>> Sure. I
>> And is that why you got interested in
revisiting it? Well, I think the thing
that really
messed me up was the ending of the
movie. The death in misery. She should
just die maybe the first time.
>> There's a gun.
There is a There's an eye gouging.
At some point, he picks up a statue that
she keeps in the house of a pig and just
bashes her head in over and
[clears throat] over.
>> It's just like it's just too much.
>> It's too much. It's gruesome.
>> Now, while this is happening, I'm
weeping and everybody else in the
audience is clapping and cheering,
>> right?
>> I'm as far as I can tell alone weeping
and I am sobbing. I can remember
somebody looking over at me and being
like, "Oh my god, what is going on with
this kid?"
>> Um, so I went back the next day to see
if it happened again. Sure enough, it's
time to kill Kathy Bates and I'm
weeping.
>> So, do what do you understand about your
response now? I mean, and what did you
understand then and what do you
understand now? Because I still I I
still don't totally understand it. Like,
what
>> you mean on my behalf? You don't
understand it? Like what were you
[snorts] feeling about this woman
>> and seeing in her and noticing in her?
>> Right.
>> I was going to a boarding school
>> and it's a boarding school. You don't
get to see your parents. [sighs]
I was really
like I had a real deep well I think of
missing my mother.
>> Yeah.
>> And any substitutes for that like and I
think that was the trauma of going to
that school. I loved my mother a lot and
it I was never mad at her for putting me
in the school. We had to do it. It was
the right thing to do. But, you know,
the hole that lives in me that nobody
can really control is filled by these
depictions of moms in in certain kinds
of women in movies.
>> And Annie Wilks, Kathy Bates's
performance sort of filled that hole
>> cuz she's not a mother in the movie. No,
but she's warm and maternal. She's
taking care of James Con for she mostly
for a while most of her screen time is
taking care of him, right?
>> I was more responding to to the to the
to the bright side cuz her bright sides
are so bright. Her ups are really up and
her downs are can be fatal.
[laughter]
>> Yeah, it can be homicidal.
>> Um, so I think that like part of my
going back I went three times in one
weekend and then one more time. uh
during the run of the movie and then
when it came comes out on home video I
broke that tape because I watched Misery
so much. Um I think I was really
trying to understand
why
I felt this way and everybody else felt
a different way. But then can I just say
as a cod to this story
>> and the Oscar goes to
>> Kathy Bates won an Oscar. Kathy Bates
and Me. [applause]
>> And I actually think that there are more
people out there [laughter]
>> who thought
>> who read her the way you do
>> who kind of read her. I don't know if
they weep the way I wept.
>> But email address associated with this
podcast that we can ask people.
[laughter]
Well, I do think we could ask people
about their exper their
>> We could do that, but we also need to
know if anybody is watching Misery and
Weeping for Kathy Bates.
>> Um, do you
>> Yes,
>> I I have one. Mine is different from
both of yours in that I did not
repetitively consume this thing because
I was scared to go back
>> because the way that it held me
>> was
a little bit disturbing. and unhinging.
Okay. And it's and it's it's a tame
object of love and shared with other
people. It is the show Normal People.
>> Okay.
>> Based on the Sally Rooney novel.
>> Sure.
>> We used to hook [music] up secretly.
>> Secretly. That's cool. That's actually
really hot.
>> I don't tell anybody in school about
this. [music]
>> I talk to anyone at school.
>> It's the story of these two young Irish
people. Uh they live in Siggo, kind of a
small town. Marianne, a tempestuous kind
of spiky, very, very feeling young
woman.
>> Well, I object to every thought or
action or feeling of mine being policed
like we're in some authoritarian
fantasy.
>> Well, it's not that, though, is it? It's
just Google.
>> And Connell, her classmate, who is very
sensitive, very shy, and cares a lot
about being liked. I bet you'd pretend
not to know me if we bumped into each
other.
>> Sorry.
>> I would never pretend to not know you,
Carl.
>> And they embark on a relationship, which
at first is secret because he's
embarrassed of her. And they have this
like passionate, magnetized sexual draw
to each other.
>> I know you probably hate me.
But you're the only person who actually
talks to me. You
>> never said that I hated you.
>> Well,
I like you. And then it traces their
relationship over the next four or five
years and sometimes they're able to be
together and often they part and
misunderstand each other.
>> Oh, right.
You don't want to touch me, but you get
to dictate who else does. And
I found the experience of watching this
relationship unfold just exquisitely
painful.
>> Um, I kind of thought I was them. Do you
guys ever have that experience where
like
>> like I I would find myself like holding
steaming cups of tea and [laughter]
looking mournfully out of windows and
like the the surface
>> reading is pretty obvious. like
they're beautiful young people like
having this incredible mystical sex and
you know they're so gorgeous and they
they have a kind of like ineffable
passion and like that's really great to
think about when you're a long married
person with a couple kids you
[clears throat] know yes
>> but I I know that there's something else
and I think for me I should say I I
didn't want to go back there because I
found it actually very painful to engage
with it like I I felt
>> But what was that about?
>> I felt pain.
>> I understand it.
>> You understand it?
>> I do.
>> I And I I think what it's about. So I
returned to it.
>> I'm pleased and also sad to report that
the same thing happened again.
>> I've been up since for like 2 2 a.m.
watching it again.
>> You just did this.
>> I did it again. I did it to to
investigate the feeling again.
>> Professional.
>> I did it to investigate the feeling.
>> Professional massochist. Well, but I
think what it is is the the precise
emotional register of the show,
which takes its character's intensity of
feeling very seriously
is the register that's only available to
you at a certain age,
>> I think. And like it's not available to
me anymore. That register, that exact
register.
>> So, it's kind of like
a nostalgia youth.
>> It's a museum of my youth. And it's like
>> it's like revisiting an old emotional
zone.
>> And I think like
>> did you like yourself in that zone?
>> Yes.
>> Once you learn how to deal with the
vicissitudes of life and once you know
>> the structure of your emotional life,
you your edges become a little more
blunted. And not to say that I have no
peaks of feeling, but like
>> they're they're much more contained
because I recognize how things go. Yeah.
>> So, when you're young and you don't
recognize how things go, you can swell.
And when you're older, you can't. So,
>> can I read something from Taffy's what
Taffy wrote?
>> Yeah,
>> sure.
>> Um,
[laughter]
there is still a vestage of my brain
that is fighting to save me, to defeat
the doldrums of passive consumption by
dragging me to fight for active passion.
And I feel like [sighs and gasps]
some
there's something going on with that for
you Sasha with normal people or whatever
normal people has like act can activate
in you.
>> Yes. And I mean obviously you've had
this experience with Operation Minsmeat,
but I'm wondering I mean like you have
not gone back to watch normal people as
many times as Taffy has gone to see
Operation Mince Meat, but I do kind of
wonder if there's an aspect of of your
having this experience and I wonder how
you will feel about the question I'm
going to ask Taffy, but like how much of
of what we're talking about you doing
here is a kind of performance
that you need to do for yourself. Right?
>> The other people I've spoken to who have
been multiple multiple multiple times
describe
the language they use is being there for
them. I don't feel that way. I feel that
I am there for me.
>> Yeah, that's what I'm that's what I'm
asking. I feel that I am there to figure
this out and to shake myself and remind
myself
>> that that that this exists that this
feeling inside me
>> exists
>> exists and you know it's it's uh there's
a phrase I use in there um the
pmenopause of my passions I think it is
>> the amount of people who are like I'm in
perry menopause too I'm like no no no
I'm using it as a metaphor like why
can't we use that as a metaphor? This
idea of this thing that you're pushing
away, [snorts] this thing that's going
away from you, this sort of youthful
passion, the same thing Sasha describes
that you thought you might not ever
experience again because you thought
there I am. I am so controlled now. I am
so I so I can appreciate things. I can
like them. I can even be moved by them.
I can never be consumed anymore.
>> And here I was consumed. [snorts] And
it's not an accident that it's it's my
it happened over the course of turning
50.
>> Mhm. Yeah. This is interesting cuz you
know,
don't kill me. But like I mean I don't
know how old Annie Wils is supposed to
be.
>> How dare you. She's probably supposed to
be 36. That's what I find out now is
that like [laughter] everybody Everybody
in the in the '9s was 36 when we thought
they were 65.
>> What you is like this a thing that
happens
>> to a woman at 50? I don't know. I don't
speak for all women.
>> That wasn't my point. My point was that
that James Khan is taking away her
operation mince meat, right?
>> He's decided
>> he's not writing the show anymore. He's
done.
>> He's done. And people not performing
anymore.
>> He was so right to be sympathetic to
her.
>> He was God. You were so right [laughter]
>> because I have no sympathy for the James
Con character here.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Even though I'm supposed to, but I feel
like what is happening here is this
entire this woman's entire world is
being taken away from her.
>> But now I have questions and it is did
you put those two things together when
you read my story and that's why you
were thinking of misery? Would you have
thought
>> I didn't think about that until
>> I thought about it just now. I feel like
I want to lie down in the fetal
position.
>> You're right.
>> I mean,
>> what if I what if I chop off their
[laughter]
>> Well, then they can't leap in the air
like that. They can't [laughter] ruin
the show. I don't want to do that.
>> Take us in like a in like a Can I put a
different spin on the ball? Maybe
typically earnest one.
But like I I have to say that for me
like your what your piece did was make
me go back to this site of
unsettledness, right? Like it it asked
me to confront it again. You were not
afraid
>> to confront it again.
>> And you were 14, so it's a little
different, but it's like I was
>> to feel something again and you are
afraid to go back. But then I went and
and I and I think there's something like
really good in the cultivation of this.
I mean you they're not a dime a dozen.
These obsessions fall upon you. You
can't you can't predict them. But like
if you have that feeling,
>> seize it and investigate it and like
figure out what's going on and and have
contact with it because I think it's
like it it is a it's a really good thing
to do.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is yet another reason to
sympathize with Kathy Bates.
>> Yeah. cuz she knows and she knows that
what happens without this character in
her life is is death.
>> Yeah. So, we've got to seize the
pmenopause of our passions [laughter]
wherever and however and however old we
are.
>> Yes. But I think it I think it does
[laughter] like you know again not to
>> I'm not laughing at the there's a
concision here that I'm just like in awe
of
>> but I think it's like you can go back
like you can you can you can if by doing
this exercise not an exercise by by
submitting
>> to this to these passions you actually
can go back you can go home again
>> and you could stop being the cool
observer of the world and be part of it.
Well, I think that you have
discovered something about yourself and
that the the discovery I think kind of
is the answer.
>> Yeah.
>> You know.
>> And it's kind of an invitation or it was
for me to like make the same discovery.
So, thank you.
Oh, before you go, I just wanted to say
thank you to the Grammy people. I don't
often get to say this to the Grammy
people because often it's a different
blanku, but
something wonderful happened. A lot of
wonderful things happened during that
broadcast, but personally, I went in
only interested in one artist, and that
was Lola Young. She made one of my very
very very favorite songs from last year.
It's called Messy. [music]
>> It's like one of those slow burning rock
numbers, but I love the confidence of
that song. [music]
>> And musically, it just sounds so good
when she repeats that part of the song
where she's like, "You hate the [music]
[__] love."
hate the [__]
>> Anyway, I'm like, what is she going to
do with the Grammys? Is she going to
come out and like do the thing she does
in the video where she's just standing
there being pissed off? No, she sits at
a piano pissed off [music] and does the
song there playing a very light skeletal
operation and she's taken this this like
uptempo song back into Adele territory
and she belts it.
I go high again and fold my clothes.
>> And I'm like, okay, we're done. That's
enough. But then [laughter]
this amazing thing happens during the
show.
>> I very much relate to this song. Messy
Lola Young. [music]
>> Lola Young best pop solo performance
comes up and she wins. She's just like
[laughter] jumping. She's just jumping
up and down. She beats Chapel Road,
Sabria Carpenter, Lady Gaga, Justin
Bieber. It is a wonderful thing. This is
a person who was in ill health last year
and is now now she's got a Grammy. I
just I love this woman so much. She just
she really does something to my heart
[music] and it's still happening to my
heart right now cuz I I still can't
believe she won. Bad Bunny Kendrick.
Yeah, I [music] that was bound to
happen. But Lola Young winning anything.
[sighs]
I can't believe I'm saying this, but
thank you Grammy [music] people.